Feature/kickstarter trajectory 2019 light (#495)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-03-19-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-Light.md

When coding in a traditional way you will often end up with a lot more code, could run into problems when for example a promise clogs a thread or you could end up with a mess of callbacks making your code extremely hard to read.
 
## DevOps and Continuous Integration
 
<img class="image left medium" alt="devops logo" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/devops.png">

An introduction to DevOps & CI given by [Tim Vierbergen](/author/tim-vierbergen) explaining this way of working and how it increases the productivity of a team.
We also covered some best practices considering version control, building, testing and deploying with an example project to get a bit more familiar with the software used to do this.
Software such as Git for version control, Jenkins for building, Jasmine for testing and Docker/Spinnaker for deploying.

## Security Principles
 
In this presentation we went over the basics on how to protect your application and the user data it stores from malicious intent.
We went over some good practices regarding the storage of data and the verification of your users.

> For example the hashing of passwords, enabling 2 step authentication, deciding on the amount of allowed invalid login attempts before issuing a timeout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example the hashing of passwords, enabling 2-factor authentication and deciding on the amount of allowed invalid login attempts before issuing a timeout.
```

All of these things should be decided using a mix of guidelines and common sense.

## Clean Code

[Pieter Van Hees](/author/pieter-van-hees) gave us a course of clean code, this course was not focussed on writing new code but improving the way you write the code. 

#### Improvements:
- Readability
- Maintainability
- Avoid rewrites
  

> The biggest enemy of clean code is pressure so Pieter advised us to take our time to write clean code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest enemy of clean code is pressure, so Pieter advised us to take our time to write clean code.
```

During this course we also did some exercises through public code katas available on the internet.

> This course only gave an introduction and he recommended us to read the book by Robert Cecil Martin.

Reviewer: Which book? :-)
Clean Code or Clean Architecture?

## Frontend Build tools, testing, package managers and more

This course was led by [Michael Vervloet](/author/michael-vervloet), who is a full stack JavaScript/TypeScript developer at Ordina.
He gave us the know-how on the building process, serving your application and doing this in an optimized way.

> He also showed us to use generators and build tools to create a whole lot of code and files in the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He also showed us how to use generators and build tools to create a whole lot of code and files in the terminal.
```

The main topics of this course were Node.js, package managers and ways to build & generate your code (gulp, webpack and Angular CLI).

> We went over them one by one and got the chance to test and install them on our machine's to get a hands-on experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We went over them one by one and got the chance to test and install them on our machines to get a hands-on experience.
```

In the end, we created an Angular application from scratch and played around with the generator to make some components and serving them to look at our work.

## Java Language Features
Java is a pretty popular language in the backend development world, and is our preferred backend language here at JWorks.
That's why [Yannick De Turck](/author/yannick-de-turck) explained us the newest features of Java versions 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.

> Java 11 is the newest LTS version, so it was important for us to get a detailed explanation about its newest changes and features. 

Reviewer: Don't forget about all the exercises on Java 8. ;-)

One of the most useful features that Java 10 introduced is the 'var' keyword.
How great is it that you don't have to specify the type twice during the initialization of an object!?

> Other than that, there were a lot of extra useful features that will certainly be nice to have once we need to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other than that, there were a lot of extra useful features that will certainly be nice to have once we can use them.
```

It was very entertaining to get a quick overview as to what is new, what is being removed or deprecated and what we can or should expect in the coming Java versions.

## Spring Framework
<img class="image left" alt="Spring logo" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/spring-logo.png">

For a framework this big and popular, we followed a three-day course given by [Ken Coenen](/author/ken-coenen).
On the first day, we received a brief explanation as to how the Spring magic works behind the scenes (dependency injection, beans, ...).

> We saw the basic of the most common components of the full Spring Framework such as Cloud, Security, ... . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We saw the basics of the most common components of the full Spring Framework such as Cloud, Security, ... . 
```

On the second day, we dived into the magic behind Spring Boot.
It's remarkable how much Spring Boot does for you without any configuration needed, although you can fully configure Spring Boot to your needs and satisfactions.

On the third day, [Ken](/author/ken-coenen) did a live coding session and created a Spring Boot application from scratch and explained how to fully initialize your Spring Boot project and get the most out of it through various steps and always showing the best practices for each implementation.

#### Full House during the third day
<img class="image fit" alt="Full house" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/spring-session.jpg">

Of course, afterwards we had some time to relax after three days of exploring the Spring Framework.
We closed our three-day session on Friday with the best combination: pizza and beer!

#### Pizza & beer!

<img class="image fit" alt="Pizza Time" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/pizza-time.jpg">

## Unit Testing and mocking in Java

<img class="image right" alt="Junit + Java Image" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/unit-testing.jpg" />

> We got an introduction to Unit Testing in java from [Maarten Casteels](/author/maarten-casteels).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We got an introduction to Unit Testing in Java from [Maarten Casteels](/author/maarten-casteels).
```

#### The red line:

- Goals of Testing

> - What to Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What to test
```

- Fixtures
- Mocks
- Assertions

In the morning we got a very interactive theory session where we learned how important testing really is, the basics and what it all stands for.
In the afternoon we learned to unit test our code, the best way to do this, how to mock dependencies, use fixtures and a whole lot more.
Maarten also showed us the most common pitfalls to avoid, and some best practices like test-driven development (TDD) and how writing tests can help you with refactoring your code and lastly look at it with a different vision.

For lunch we went to a place called Meals On Wheels were we were introduced to a whole other world of sandwiches.

> Once you’ve been there you will know what we mean by that, don’t go too often though.

Reviewer: Hah! 😀

## Kubernetes
<img class="image left medium" alt="Kubernetes Logo" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/kubernetes-logo.png" />

> [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) is an open source container orchestration framework which was first introduced to us by [Tom Verelst](/author/tom-verelst) during the kickstarter traject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} is an open source container orchestration framework which was first introduced to us by [Tom Verelst](/author/tom-verelst) during the kickstarter traject.
```

It is made by Google and is now maintained by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
First they introduced us to all the features that Kubernetes possesses (service discovery, horizontal scaling, load balancing, ...). 

> Soon we learned how to deploy Docker containers in the cloud by using Kubernetes, and afterwards we had an hands-on exercise where we could deploy a full-stack application to a Kubernetes cluster using [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soon we learned how to deploy Docker containers in the cloud by using Kubernetes, and afterwards we had an hands-on exercise where we could deploy a full-stack application to a Kubernetes cluster using [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.
```

we had a dedicated session about this topic given by [Bas Moorkens](/author/bas-moorkens) and [Dieter Hubau](/author/dieter-hubau).
Bas was focusing on Amazon Web Services and all its features that it has to offer.

We quickly learned that AWS was very advanced and had lots of components to facilitate the life of a developer.
It was a very interesting session and made me realise that AWS was a big part of the development scene.
We are eager to use it and learn more of what is has to offer. 

<img class="image right medium" alt="OpenShift Logo" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/openshift-logo.png">

As for cloud platforms, we got a very detailed explanation of how OpenShift (made by RedHat) works and what its features and options are.
We also got a high-level explanation as to how an application in the cloud works and what the best practices are to achieve deploying your application in the cloud.

Overall, it was a very interesting session for cloud-enthusiasts and we definitely want to learn more about it!

## TypeScript
After the session HTLML5, CSS3, JavaScript, [Dimitri De Kerf](/author/dimitri-de-kerf) learned us the benefits of TypeScript. 

> He told us some benefits of using TypeScript instead of JavaScript. This means that TypeScript is a wrapper around JavaScript, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He told us some benefits of using TypeScript instead of JavaScript.
TypeScript is a wrapper around JavaScript, 
```

Reviewer: Also a major advantage is that the code gets compiled to JavaScript meaning that you'll get compiler errors whereas in JavaScript you'll have to run into the issue at runtime.
Type safety is also an advantage as it allows your IDE to better assist you with code completion.

which means it has more methods to use to develop a application which you otherwise would not be possible.

Like declaring declaring a colon and a type after the variable.

[Dimitri De Kerf](/author/dimitri-de-kerf) showed how to configure our project to use TypeScript and to use these features.
He explained us that it is important to know how to use TypeScript because it is used in popular frameworks like Angular and React.

## Angular

<img class="image right" width="300" alt="Angular logo" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/angular.png">

[Ryan De Gruyter](/autor/Ryan-De-Gruyter) was our teacher for today.
He quickly introduced us to Angular, a platform that is designed to easily create browser applications built by Google. 

> The first version of Angular was AngularJS, it was very popular and used by many companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first version of Angular was AngularJS
It was very popular and used by many companies.
```

Google decided to update Angular and created Angular 2 which was not welcomed by the industry at that time because it removed all the AngularJS concepts. 

> It took some time for the industry to adapt and see the positive stuff of Angular2: Open Source community, improved dependency injection, better performance, enc..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It took some time for the industry to adapt and see the positive stuff of Angular 2: Open Source community, improved dependency injection, better performance, etc..
```

> Angular 2 is not the holy grail of frameworks. It still has some downsides like lots of ceremony and boilerplate thanks to the use of Angular CLI.

Reviewer: Lots of ceremonies?

Reviewer 2: Not sure. Don't think so though, according to this post: 
https://wildermuth.com/2016/07/31/Is-Angular2-Too-Full-of-Ceremony

Reviewer: I see. Hadn't heard about that saying. TIL... :-)

After the information session, he showed us how easy it was to create an Angular project where we learned how to create an Angular application using small reusable pieces called components.

## Frontend hands-on

> Today [Jan De Wilde](/autor/Jan-De-Wilde) asked if we still had question about the last Angular session. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jan De Wilde](/autor/Jan-De-Wilde) asked if we still had question about the Angular session. 
```

> Because in this session we would create an Angular application using all the techniques we learned form the previous course and he wanted to be sure we understood everything before we started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because in this session we would create an Angular application using all the techniques we learned from the previous course and he wanted to be sure we understood everything before we started.
```

So he went a bit deeper on some topics and showed us on how to execute calls to an API and to structure the project properly.

After the lunch break, when we were still digesting our food, we started to write a complete Angular application. 

> [Jan De Wilde](/autor/Jan-De-Wilde) guided us through the process showing us possible issues we could encounter and explained how we could solve those issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jan De Wilde](/autor/Jan-De-Wilde) guided us through the process, showing us possible issues we could encounter and explained how we could solve those issues.
```

 
## Intro to Cloud-Friendly Development

[Kevin Van Houtte](/autor/Kevin-Van-Houtte) introduced us to contract testing.

> It is a tool to write a exact input en output of a API call, after we run our project our contract will generate tests for our controller checking if the controller output is the same as we expected in the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a tool to write a exact input and output of an API call.
After we run our project, our contract will generate tests for our controller, checking if the controller output is the same as we expected in the contract.
```

> These files generated by the contract can be imported into Javadoc for documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files, generated by the contract, can be imported into Javadoc for documentation. 
```

> Afterwards we had some exercises were we could use all the skills we had learned in these courses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards we had some exercises where we could use all the skills we had learned in these courses.
```

* API driven programming with contract tests.

> * Load those API docs into our Java docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Loading the API docs into our Java docs
```

> * Attach and database to our Spring Boot application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Attaching a database to our Spring Boot application
```

> * Create migration scripts and use those to populate the database with FlyWay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating migration scripts and using these to populate the database with FlyWay
```

> * Create a config server and connect our Spring Boot application to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating a config server and connecting our Spring Boot application to it
```

> * Enable actuator and use it to generate metrics data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enabling actuator and using it to generate metrics data
```

All these exercises help us prepare for a real project in the future.

## Agile Development 

> First we saw different approaches to work as a team which are not agile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we saw different approaches to work as a non-agile team.
```

> Like the waterfall system that has some downsides, which doesn't give a lot of feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the waterfall system that has some downsides such as getting late feedback from the business or end user.
```

The feedback is only in the end of the life cycle of the project or when the project got tested. 

<img class="image right" alt="Agile Methodology" src="/img/2019-Kickstarter-Trajectory-2019-light/agile-methodology.png">

> Another way of working was with Agile, this has more benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying an Agile approach offers a lot of benefits:
```
